Release v4.5.0 (#1279)
nautobot/nautobot-app-ssot: docs/admin/release_notes/version_4.5.md

# v4.5 Release Notes

This document describes all new features and changes in the release. The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/) and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## Release Overview

- Major features or milestones

> - Changes to compatibility with Nautobot and/or other apps, libraries etc.

Reviewer: TODO: Update these before release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added opt-in progress logging to the contrib `NautobotAdapter`, so large syncs emit periodic "objects loaded" messages to the job log instead of running silently through the load phase. Enable it under with `enable_progress_logger: True` in your `PLUGINS_CONFIG` (defaults to `False`) and tune how often messages are logged with `progress_logger_interval` (number of objects between log lines, defaults to `1000`; `0` disables it)
- SSoT jobs can now suppress Nautobot's automatic Device/Module component instantiation during a sync. Opt in via a `DataSyncBaseJob` class attribute, the `PLUGINS_CONFIG` global setting, or the `SkipAutoComponentCreation` context manager directly (any source enabling it wins). Default behavior is unchanged for jobs that don't opt in, and the feature degrades gracefully (no-op plus a one-time warning) on Nautobot versions that lack the underlying core extension point.
- Added a generic `ObjectMetadataAnnotation` to `nautobot_ssot.contrib`, letting any contrib `NautobotModel` DiffSync model read and write a field's value to Nautobot `ObjectMetadata`. Reads are lenient (missing type/row resolves to `None`) and prefetched to avoid N+1 queries; writes are strict and idempotent, with None treated as a no-op.
```

- [#1226](https://github.com/nautobot/nautobot-app-ssot/issues/1226) - Added `skip_auto_component_creation` opt-in for SSoT jobs, suppressing Nautobot's automatic Device/Module component instantiation during sync via Nautobot core's `nautobot.apps.dcim.SkipAutoComponentCreation` extension point (nautobot/nautobot#9026).
- [#1249](https://github.com/nautobot/nautobot-app-ssot/issues/1249) - Added `ObjectMetadataAnnotation` to `nautobot_ssot.contrib`, letting DiffSync models on the `NautobotModel` base read and write a field's value to Nautobot ObjectMetadata.
- [#1261](https://github.com/nautobot/nautobot-app-ssot/issues/1261) - Added the `aristacv_delete_ipaddresses_on_sync` setting to the Arista CloudVision integration to allow for the deletion of IP addresses that are present in Nautobot but not present in CloudVision (defaults to False).
- [#1275](https://github.com/nautobot/nautobot-app-ssot/issues/1275) - Added automatic `sysparm_fields` selection to the ServiceNow integration so each table load only requests the columns referenced by its mappings, and made the ServiceNow page size (`limit`) configurable.

### Fixed

> - [#NTC-5652](https://github.com/nautobot/nautobot-app-ssot/issues/NTC-5652) - Change MTU in DNA Center integration to account for 0 as an output from DNAC and save it in Nautobot as None.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#NTC-5652](https://github.com/nautobot/nautobot-app-ssot/pull/1193) - Change MTU in DNA Center integration to account for 0 as an output from DNAC and save it in Nautobot as None.
```
